---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

So this week, I only worked two days (Thursday, Friday).  Last week I worked an extra day (Saturday), so I'll make up 2 days I missed this week in the 11th week, so expect to see my blog post in the 11th week.

### Web Speech API
So I only had two days to work with this.  I ended last week mostly getting it set up with WebRTC + Web Speech API.  Came back yesterday (Thursday, June 11) to resume my working schedule, and continue to troubleshoot the issues I had with getting web speech API to work properly with WebRTC.  I also spent some time studying my co-intern partner, Emelia Beldon, on her successful work with Microsoft Azure ASR.  It works successfully in a WebRTC environment.  So there are some functions that she and another senior researcher, Norman, worked on.  I took some time to read and understand those functions and try to implement it in a similar way with Web Speech API. Unfortunately, it is not as easy as it looks.  Microsoft Azure has a SDK that can be implemented straight into the source code.  Web Speech API on the other hand is a default implementation that a browser recognizes.  Google Chrome recognizes this by default, and another browsers are in the process of supporting it.  Therefore, there is no SDK, so I have to work with the code somewhat differently from what is being built for WebRTC + MS Azure implementation. That's pretty much what I was doing the past 2 days.  To remind you, this weekly blog post is a short one due to my short work week. More to come next week, farewell!
